V21 release notes (#271)
nanocurrency/nano-docs: docs/releases/node-releases.md

**Upcoming v2 epoch upgrade**  
As outlined in the [February Development Update: V21 PoW Difficulty Increases](https://medium.com/nanocurrency/development-update-v21-pow-difficulty-increases-362b5d052c8e), an epoch block distribution must be done to complete the upgrade to the new work difficulty thresholds. **All integrations generating work are encouraged to review the details on the [Network Upgrades page under the Upcoming upgrades section](/releases/network-upgrades#increased-work-difficulty) ahead of the epoch V2 distribution.**

!!! note "Considerations when using [`active_difficulty`](/commands/rpc-protocol/#active_difficulty) RPC"
	For external integrations that utilize the difficulty values from the [`active_difficulty`](/commands/rpc-protocol/#active_difficulty) RPC, if you track the `network_minimum` value returned you will see a change from `ffffffc000000000` (pre-epoch v2 difficulty) to `fffffff800000000` (8x higher epoch v2 difficulty), an indication the epoch upgrade has begun.

> 	Once this occurs, send and change blocks should use this newly returned, higher threshold, and receive blocks can optionally use `fffffe0000000000` as the lower threshold going forward.

Author: Moved and reorganized

---

#### Major Updates
 
**Work difficulty increase**  
As mentioned in the [Upgrade Notices](#upgrade-notices) section above, work difficulty changes were implemented in V21, but will not be activated until epoch v2 blocks are distributed at a future date. Please review the [Upcoming upgrades section](/releases/network-upgrades#increased-work-difficulty) of the Network Upgrades page for details.

Updates on the progress toward the epoch upgrade will be posted in our many social channels as well as sent through our technical updates mailing list which can be joined here: http://eepurl.com/gZucL1.

**Node Telemetry**  
To allow better communication between nodes about various performance and other details, telemetry was added between peers. Details of what is shared and option to request them can be found within the [`node_telemetry`](/commands/rpc-protocol/#node_telemetry) RPC. Various version details, account and block counts, active difficulty and more can be discovered from individual peers or summarized across them. For protocol level details, see [Node Telemetry section](/protocol-design/networking/#node-telemetry) under Protocol Design > Networking.

> !!! warning "Telemetry can be forged"

Author: You mean this part? ```For protocol level details, see [Node Telemetry section](/protocol-design/networking/#node-telemetry) under Protocol Design > Networking.```

> !!! warning "Telemetry can be forged"

Reviewer: Sorry, this had more lines than intended. I meant the `warning "Telemetry can be forged"`

* When `watch_work` is set to `false`, it is no longer required to have [`enable_control`](/running-a-node/configuration/#enable_control) = `true` in the `config-rpc.toml` file.

!!! note "Log when voting, warn multiple accounts"
	When the node is started there are new messages pushed to the logs which indicate when voting is enabled and how many representatives are configured to vote. A warning will be included in both the logs and `stdout` if multiple representatives are configured to be voting.

---

#### RPC Updates

* **BREAKING CHANGE** [`work_validate`](/commands/rpc-protocol/#work_validate) has multiple changes to the response, one which will break most existing integrations:
    * If `difficulty` parameter is not explicitly passed in the request, the existing `valid` field will not be returned (**breaking**)
    * `valid_all` is a new return field, `true` if the work is valid at the current default difficulty (will go up after epoch upgrade)

>     * `valid_receive` is a new return field, `true` if the work is valid at the lower epoch_2 receive difficulty (only useful after epoch upgrade)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `valid_receive` is a new return field, `true` if the work is valid at the lower epoch_2 receive difficulty (only useful after the epoch upgrade is finished)
```

* `active_difficulty` [RPC](/commands/rpc-protocol/#work_validate) and [WebSocket](/integration-guides/websockets/#active-difficulty) will automatically begin returning the higher difficulty threshold for send/change blocks in the `network_minimum` field once the epoch upgrade begins, otherwise the response formats will remain the same
* **BREAKING CHANGE** [`bootstrap_status`](/commands/rpc-protocol/#bootstrap_status) responses now have `connections` field as an array of connection-related fields and adds an `attempts` field with an area of individual bootstrap attempt details, each including information such as a unique id, type of bootstrap (legacy, lazy) and various other granular information.
* [`account_info`](/commands/rpc-protocol/#account_info) responses now contain `confirmation_height_frontier` which is the hash of the last confirmed block.
**----------TODO:** Add brief details about how this is helpful to integrations...

--8<-- "process-sub-type-recommended.md"

#### CLI Updates
* **NEW** [`--generate_config [node|rpc]`](/commands/command-line-interface/#-generate_config-noderpc) prints sample configuration files to *stdout*

>     * `use_defaults` additional argument to generate uncommented entries (not recommended)

Reviewer: As it's already in the provided link, wouldn't even mention it here since it's not recommended.

* **NEW** [`--config`](/commands/command-line-interface/#-config-keyvalue) passes configuration arguments, alternative to setting in the config file
* **NEW** [`--inactive_votes_cache_size`](/commands/command-line-interface/#-inactive_votes_cache_size) allows adjusting of the cache that holds votes where the block is does not have an action election, default is 16384 votes
* **NEW** [`--rebuild_database`](/commands/command-line-interface/#-rebuild_database) provides a better compaction method for LMDB. **NOTE:** This requires approximately `data.ldb` file size * 2 in free space on disk.
* **NEW** [`--compare_rep_weights`](/commands/command-line-interface/#-compare_rep_weights) gives the ability to compare the current ledger voting weight distribution against the hard coded weights provided in the node on release. Useful when attempting to use a downloaded ledger. More details on use on [Ledger Management page](/running-a-node/ledger-management)

---

#### WebSockets

> * Updates to WebSocket subscriptions are now allowed on the [`confirmation`](/integration-guides/websockets/#confirmations) topic. With `options` of `accounts_add` and `accounts_del` an existing subscription can now be more easily managed to avoid cancelling and resubscribing or managing multiple subscriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updates to WebSocket subscriptions are now allowed on the [`confirmation`](/integration-guides/websockets/#confirmations) topic. With `options` of `accounts_add` and `accounts_del` an existing subscription can now be more easily managed to avoid resubscribing with a large list of accounts or managing multiple subscriptions.
```

Cancelling to re-subscribe wasn't required.
